Diagnostic Workup for Chordoma

Question: What are the steps included in the diagnostic workup for chordoma?
Answer: The diagnostic workup includes evaluation and treatment by a multidisciplinary team, history and physical examination, adequate cross-sectional imaging of the primary site, C/A/P CT with contrast, consideration of FDG-PET/CT scan, and bone scan if FDG-PET/CT is negative.
Histologic Subtype

Conventional or Chondroid Chordoma
Question: Which guideline should be referred to for the presentation and initial treatment of conventional or chondroid chordoma?
Answer: The guidelines for the presentation and primary treatment (CHOR-2) should be referred to.
Poorly Differentiated or Dedifferentiated Chordoma
Question: Which guidelines should be referred to for poorly differentiated or dedifferentiated chordoma?
Answer: The NCCN guidelines for soft tissue sarcoma should be referred to.
Chordoma Treatment Guidelines

Sacrococcygeal and Mobile Spine Chordoma
Question: Is the sacrococcygeal or mobile spine chordoma resectable?
Answers:
If yes: Perform wide resection and consider radiation therapy if needed.
If no: Consider radiation therapy as the tumor is unresectable.
Skull Base Clival Chordoma
Question: Is the skull base or clival chordoma resectable?
Answers:
If yes: Perform intralesional excision and consider radiation therapy if needed.
If no: Consider radiation therapy as the tumor is unresectable.
Surveillance

Question: How should surveillance for chordoma be conducted?
Answer: Regular physical examinations, imaging of the primary site as clinically indicated, chest imaging every 6 months for 5 years, then annually thereafter as clinically indicated.
Recurrence

Local Recurrence
Question: How should a local recurrence of chordoma be treated?
Answer: Surgical excision, radiation therapy (RT), and systemic therapy may be considered.
Metastatic Recurrence
Question: How should a metastatic recurrence of chordoma be treated?
Answer: Systemic therapy, surgical excision, radiation therapy (RT), and best supportive care may be considered.
Additional Information

Targeted Therapy Decision
Question: How are targeted therapy opportunities for chordoma determined?
Answer: Consideration should be given to comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) with a validated and/or FDA-approved assay.
TMB and MMR/MSI Testing
Question: Should TMB and MMR/MSI testing be considered in the treatment of chordoma?
Answer: Testing for TMB and MMR/MSI may be considered as determined by a validated and/or FDA-approved assay.
